---
title: "Am I still a software developer?"
date: 2024-04-05
draft: false
---

If you are interested in more details about my continuing education or my professional career, please see my profile on [linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/peter-h%C3%A4fliger-89b107103/). You will see that I call myself "agile software developer and product owner". When I last updated my profile I was asking myself whether I was even allowed to call myself a "developer". When I started my professional career in 2001, software developers in many companies were very proud of their profession and would sometimes give the impression of looking down on all others who did not belong to their exclusive circle. You would hear them call somebody "only a business analyst" or - even worse - a "manager" (meaning a "suit" with power but no technical understanding). Luckily, I started my career at [sd&m - software design & management](https://www.software-pioneers.com/sdm), a german software project company. They did not sell products but projects and they relied on the customers for business-specific know-how. The company's employees were all generalists and - except some managers and architects - were all called "software engineers" even if they were assigned to all phases of the - then usually very waterfall - development process: requirements engineering, 

I sometimes fear that my developer colleagues might find this presumptuous. After all, I have not been a "developer" since I got promoted team lead in 2010. On the other hand, what's my professional purpose other than developing software, even if I am not actually programming? When people talk of a "film-maker", they usually refer to the director or producer, not to the person actually holding the camera. In the same sense, I will always consider myself a software developer, even if my contribution is not in writing code but in identifying customer requirements, reconciling stakeholder priorities and maximizing value.
